---
title: Building my Blog with a Static Site Generator
date: 2021-08-08
draft: true
---

It took me a few days to build this simple site. For my use case, the set up is an overkill. I end up spending most of my time tweaking the stylesheet, which is a pain to handle in static site generators.
<!-- excerpt --> 

I have intended to build a proper personal site for a while and Jekyll seemed to be the most natural choice. I had little idea about what a **static site generator** (SSG) is going in. Jekyll seemed to be the go-to choice for a personal site hosted on Github because of its popularity. I browsed the JAMstack [website](https://jamstack.org/generators/) for existing SSGs and ended up choosing **Eleventy**, a javascript-based framework. The JAMstack site gives basic information about license, popularity and language of different SSGs, which is not very helpful given how little one would interact with the implementation language for most use cases.

I use this site to provide basic information about myself and document my coding experience. Prior to building the site, I have been paying attention to the design and tech stack of people's personal sites for a while. A large proportion of the sites are themed with templates, as evident from the copyright claims. Many are hand-made as well. I am mostly attracted to the second category where the site feels less generic. I find myself attracted to certain "academic" style where the appearances look a lot like Latex. (Another look I like is vanilla emacs in tango theme). I built my previous site with a front page in float-based layout. I modeled the layout after a webpage I liked but did not realize how outdated it is until I researched about css layout. But even then I didn't find it problematic to use a static site pure made from html and css. All I need was a front page that introduce myself and list of my blog posts that link to individual blogs. In SSG, this can be done automatically with some template language (more on this below). In a vanilla html and css site, this can be done with a javascript function that grabs the title element in DOM. But even without the script, many simply type out their blog list. 

### Learning New Technology in A Unfamiliar Domain

I chose Eleventy because it is implemented in Javascript, which I intended to learn this summer. However, the only place to interact with javascript in the SSG is the configuration file, where you can add support for advanced functionalities. The most important part of the SSG is to know template language such as Liquid and Nunjucks work, but this not at all clear from the documentation.

Compared to other SSG, Eleventy has a lot less user base. The documentation isn't really beginner friendly. There isn't an overview of how the whole package works. As a beginner, what I want to know the most are: 1, what are the steps I need to take to create a minimum project? This step is usually covered in many available tutorials. However, I don't just want to know what a particular set up or function look like, but for each step, why I am doing this and what are the options and alternatives? 2, on a more basic level, how does each step contributes to render a website? For a new framework/a new method of building website, this means how each step listed above translate to the process of the communication between the server and the client. Often, frameworks define their own technical terms and processes. I would like to know not only how they fit together but how they constitutes a casual understanding of how a website works.

In many ways, this can be a very demanding task. For any new framework, the interlocutors are often competing frameworks of a similar functionality or an established technology of a different approach to the same problem. For example, Svelte may compare itself with React and emphasize its advantages over React. However, for newcomers, they know neither of the two. Their question is often which one to pick. So the tutorials should focus on how can to understand the framework assuming the audience have no prior knowledge of similar frameworks. 

### Structure of a SSG: Overview

Typically, i like to understand the g

### Where Did I Spent Most of My Time
